[APM][.NET] Custom instrumentation requires automatic instrumentation (#20572)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/trace_collection/custom_instrumentation/dotnet.md

      text: '.NET code samples'
---

<div class="alert alert-info">

> If you have not yet read the instructions for auto-instrumentation and setup, start with the <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup/dotnet-core/">.NET/.NET Core</a> or <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup/dotnet-framework/">.NET Framework</a> Setup Instructions.

Reviewer: Super nitpicky to change `auto-instrumentation` to `automatic instrumentation` as it is through the rest of the doc.

```suggestion
If you have not yet read the instructions for automatic instrumentation and setup, start with the <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup/dotnet-core/">.NET/.NET Core</a> or <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup/dotnet-framework/">.NET Framework</a> Setup Instructions.
```

</div>

This page details common use cases for adding and customizing observability with Datadog APM. For a list of supported runtimes, see the [.NET Framework Compatibility Requirements][1] or the [.NET Core Compatibility Requirements][2].

There are several ways to get more than the [default automatic instrumentation][3]:

- [Through configuration](#instrument-methods-through-configuration), which does not allow you to add specific tags.
- [Using attributes](#instrument-methods-through-attributes), which allows you to customize operation and resource names.

> - [Using custom code](#custom-instrumentation-with-code). It gives you the most control on the spans.

Reviewer: Nitpicky to follow the style of the other two:

```suggestion
- [Using custom code](#custom-instrumentation-with-code), which gives you the most control on the spans.
```

> You can combine these solutions with each other to achieve the instrumentation detail you want. All those solutions require automatic instrumentation to be setup first.

Reviewer: Thoughts?

```suggestion
You can combine these solutions with each other to achieve the instrumentation detail you want. However, automatic instrumentation must be setup first.
```
